https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/nodejs-tutorial/nodejs-interview-questions

1. What is Node.js? Where can you use it?
Node.js is an open-source, cross-platform JavaScript runtime environment 
and library to run web applications outside the client's browser. 
It is used to create server-side web applications.

Node.js is perfect for data-intensive applications as it uses an asynchronous, event-driven model. You can use  I/O intensive web applications like video streaming sites. You can also use it for developing: Real-time web applications, Network applications, General-purpose applications, and Distributed systems.

2. Why use Node.js?
Node.js makes building scalable network programs easy. Some of its advantages include:

It is generally fast
It rarely blocks
It offers a unified programming language and data type
Everything is asynchronous 
It yields great concurrency

3. How does Node.js work?
A web server using Node.js typically has a workflow that is quite similar to the diagram illustrated below. Let’s explore this flow of operations in detail.
Clients send requests to the webserver to interact with the web application. Requests can be non-blocking or blocking:
Querying for data
Deleting data 
Updating the data
Node.js retrieves the incoming requests and adds those to the Event Queue
The requests are then passed one-by-one through the Event Loop. It checks if the requests are simple enough not to require any external resources
The Event Loop processes simple requests (non-blocking operations), such as I/O Polling, and returns the responses to the corresponding clients
A single thread from the Thread Pool is assigned to a single complex request. This thread is responsible for completing a particular blocking request by accessing external resources, such as computation, database, file system, etc.

Once the task is carried out completely, the response is sent to the Event Loop that sends that response back to the client.

4. Why is Node.js Single-threaded?
Node.js is single-threaded for async processing. By doing async processing on a single-thread under typical web loads, more performance and scalability can be achieved instead of the typical thread-based implementation.

5. If Node.js is single-threaded, then how does it handle concurrency?
The Multi-Threaded Request/Response Stateless Model is not followed by the Node JS Platform, and it adheres to the Single-Threaded Event Loop Model. The Node JS Processing paradigm is heavily influenced by the JavaScript Event-based model and the JavaScript callback system. As a result, Node.js can easily manage more concurrent client requests. The event loop is the processing model's beating heart in Node.js.